   Humans have always looked up at the skies at night, dreaming of venturing among the stars.

   While for many centuries this was an improbability, the scientific community soldiered on. Beginning with unmanned suborbital flights, the  prospect of humans colonizing the galaxy grew brighter. Following this, manned space flights were performed, culminating in the establishment of colonies on planets and moons within the Sol system. However, given that none of these bodies supported life naturally, these colonies required frequent supplies from Earth to sustain themselves.

[fadein gfx/intro/first_steps_into_space.png]
   In time, habitable planets were discovered within several light years of Earth, a definite possibility for the future of humanity. Hulking colony ships were constructed, housing thousands of volunteers, and they were sent into the void to colonize four new worlds.

   A feat at the time, humanity was nevertheless on an unsustainable course. Overpopulation and pollution were rapidly exhausting Earth's natural resources, and damaging the atmosphere. While many marvelled at the idea, few wished to endure years of sublight travel that would culminate in a quality of life far lower than they had enjoyed on Earth.

   During the colonists' long journeys, the state of affairs on Earth continued to deteriorate. While the life of a colonist was known to be a difficult one, many left on Earth felt slighted by the global government's colonist selection practices. Many of these bitter citizens banded together, forming rival political groups.

   With overpopulation and resource depletion reaching critical levels, a tremendous breakthrough occurred. A team of elite microbiologists and nanotechnology researchers had engineered an organism genus capable of processing found materials into those that would support human life.

[fadein gfx/intro/terraforming.png]
   Thus, the age of terraforming dawned. It was now possible to colonize nearby planets that were considered uninhabitable only months prior. No longer were immense colonization ships required to supply colonists for years-long voyages. Mass-produced in-system shuttlecraft became commonplace, ferrying colonists and supplies to and from newly-terraformed planets.

   Given the massive distances to the out-of-system colonies, the news of the breakthrough would not reach them for several years. Earth's political factions had grown, and were vying for power as support for the global government dwindled. Upon re-establishing contact with the distant colonies, their response was largely negative: They blamed the government for conducting the terraforming research behind closed doors, and for wasting years of their lives on a potentially unnecessary voyage.

   With the many factions nearing the brink of war, another breakthrough was announced: Physicists had developed a method of faster-than-light travel. Called "hyperspace", a formerly unknown method of propulsion was discovered, which allowed ships to effectively fold space, allowing vast distances to be travelled in days rather than years.

[fadein gfx/intro/faster_than_light.png]
   News of this discovery spread across the Sol system, and within months functional hyperspace drives were being brought to market in purpose-built ships. Humanity expanded at breakneck speeds, travelling in days what would have taken months or years with sub-light propulsion.

   However, all was not well. Factions laid claim to wide swaths of space, and the cohesion of the human race dwindled. Earth's global government, a shell of its former glory, reformed as an interplanetary federation, hoping to bring peace to a galaxy teetering on the brink of war. While some factions supported this new federation, others viewed it dimly, as a continuation of the global government bureaucracy they loathed.

   As bitter irony would have it, the outcome of the federation's efforts were exactly what they had hoped to avoid: war. And with humanity spread across the stars, it was war on a galactic scale. Planets were annihilated, whole systems irradiated, trillions of lives lost to the insatiable war machines. Given the massive casualties from all sides, the factions withdrew; becoming deeply territorial. Abandoned systems on the borders between factions were littered with the remains of battle fleets and the charred fragments of their personnel.

   Amid the dead worlds and border skirmishes, a new power arose. The Emperor Daedris, as he was known, had been quietly gathering an immense battle fleet. Swiftly conquering the splintered remains of humanity with diplomacy and force, most factions saw the futility in resisting such an overwhelming force. At the end of his offensive, mankind was again united, under the gleaming banner of the Empire. Those factions who aided in the formation of it were given the title of Great House, and a golden age began.

[fadein gfx/intro/reign_of_daedris.png]
   Relations between factions were mended, trade routes were designated and protected by the iron fist of the Empire military. Technological development advanced at unprecedented speeds, allowing for the decontamination of many irradiated worlds. Truly, humanity was at its zenith.

   Indeed, it was. The Empire grew older, and its grip on the galaxy waned. The successors to Emperor Daedris would prove to be less noble than he, and over time the Empire's fist grew to be an open palm. Their military standards fell, entire squadrons were poisoned by greed, inclined to look the other way when appropriately financed. The unity of the Great Houses faltered, and piracy crept in. The Empire's stalwarts became buried in mounds of bureaucratic paperwork, failing to maintain relations. In the Frontier systems, resistance cells united and became a grave terrorist threat.

   Yet it paled in comparison to the events that followed, which would come to be referred to as the Incident. A cataclysmic explosion shook the galaxy, and the heart of the Empire went silent. Unknown in cause, unprecedented in scale, an explosion rippled outwards from humanity's birthplace, annihilating all in its path, leaving a dense nebula in place of dozens of systems.

   It marked the end of the golden age. You find yourself in a universe with a decaying Empire, where corruption and piracy run rampant, rattled to its core by the Incident. But where there is chaos, there is also opportunity.


   Welcome to the universe of NAEV...




[fadeout]
