Naev's History of Man and Space

   FIRST GROWTH

       Humans first head out to space with slow but steady space travel. They travel in massive colony ships, carrying an immense number of supplies so they can survive the years-long journeys to their destinations. At the time, only class-M planets are being colonized.

       The major limitation in this age is the travel, which results in many isolated colonies, each developing their own political ideals. There is no way to quickly traverse great distances or communicate between the colonies and Earth.

       Towards the end of the First Growth, terraforming of inhospitable worlds became feasible, and humans began colonizing planets much closer to the Sol system.

       When the initial, distant colonies were contacted, they reacted negatively, blaming the government for sending them out without informing them of the terraforming research, which had been ongoing for decades.

   SECOND GROWTH

       The triggering factor of the Second Growth was the advent of hyperspace. It allows the travel many times the speed of light between systems, and thus the colonies, despite being light years away, can easily communicate with the Sol system.

       The negative feelings that had been brewing during the First Growth had not subsided, however, and factions laid claim to large swaths of space, setting up armed patrols to enforce their territorial claims.

       Given the lack of interstellar policing combined with the ease of inter-system travel, piracy blooms, hampering trade severely.

       The Earth-based government proved unable to resolve this, and reformed itself as an interplanetary federation, with the support of a handful of colonies.

   FACTION WAR

       The Federation's efforts to keep the peace were ultimately in vain. A massive war broke out, with extremely heavy casualties given the advanced weaponry of the time, combined with hyperspace travel.

       The political factions become increasingly isolationist, barely communicating outside of their own territory.

 RISE OF THE EMPIRE (THIRD GROWTH)

       Among all the death and decay spread in the Faction War appears a power decided to resolve the conflict with an iron fist. The first self-proclaimed Emperor known as Daedris begins an all out offensive to subdue all destroyed factions from the war.

       The Empire grants special privileges to helpful factions, converting them into Houses. Several major Great Houses are formed in this period:

       * Dvaered
       * Sirius
       * Proteron

   GOLDEN AGE

       Under firm and controlled rule, mankind begins to extend itself in an organized fashion. Great trade routes are established with patrols ensuring the safety of the merchants.

       Other factions are created in this age like:

       * Great House Za'lek
       * Space Traders

       Technology advances at rapidly and all seems well  Eventually small fights and conflicts begin to emerge. Some are notorious like the Frontier issues which spawn the Frontier Liberation Front. Corruption within the Empire blooms and piracy starts arriving to Second Growth levels.

       Among all the scandals and issues a sudden dire more pressing issue appears. The [Incident] takes place, and marks the end of the Golden Age.

   POST-INCIDENT

      The game begins a relatively short while after the [Incident]. The universe is in chaos, piracy is rampant, and House Proteron has not been heard from since the Incident.
