This is a readme for the planet.scm script included in this directory of the source.

0.) INSTALLATION

   In order to use this script you must copy it into the proper directory. 
In most cases that directory will be '~/.gimp-2.6/scripts/'. Take note: if you have a 
different version of gimp the directory may be different. Once the script has been
copied it should be installed and ready to go! Just start up Gimp (or if you already
have it running go to 'Xtns -> Script-Fu -> Refresh Scripts').

1.) USEAGE
   
   Using the script is fairly straight forward. If it has been loaded properly it
should have created a menu in your toolbar named 'NAEV.' Load it up and a window will
pop up. Here you have a few different options:
   
   0.1) PLANET SIZE
      Obviously this is the size of the planet. So far the standard in the is 80 pixels,
   but depending on the system the planets may be smaller/larger.
   
   0.2) PLANET COLOR
      Fairly self-explanatory. Choose the color of your planet here.
   
   0.3) SUN OREINTATION
      This is where the main light source will be coming from. Right now 0 degrees is
   at the top, and increasing the orientation goes in a clockwise direction. So 90
   degrees would be coming from the right, 270 from the left, and so on.

   0.4) SUN TILT
      This changes how much of the planet is illuminated by the sun. A value between
   8 and 9 makes a planet that is pretty much halt lit and half darkened. Again,
   this can be played around with.

   0.5) GLOW SIZE
      This function changes how much glow there will be around the planet. 4 creates a
   decent amount of glow, 0.1 makes very very little, and 10 makes a ton. 4 is the 
   default, but Bobbens thinks that the glow looks funny, so maybe turn it down to
   a low value unless its a gaseous planet.

   Hit 'OK' and see what happens! Hopefully you will generate a planet that can be
   used in game. Remember to save it as a lossless .webp or .png with transparency on.

2.) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

   If you are so inclined you can add textures to your planets as well. It really does
make them look a lot better. This is a brief tutorial on how to do so, taken from the
website of the guy who originally wrote the script. 
   http://home.tele2.fr/auroreblender/gimp/planet_en.html

   0.1) First step is to find a good texture image.

   0.2) Open up the image in Gimp and from the menu select 'Layer -> Transparency -> Add
   Alpha Channel'

   0.3) In the menu select 'Filters -> Light and Shadow -> Apply Lens'. When the menu
   comes up click on 'Make surroundings transparent' and make the Lens Refraction Index
   to 1.6. Hit OK.
      For older gimps the script is in 'Filters -> Glass Effects -> Apply Lens'.

   0.4) The web tutorial says to scale the image down by half, but that doesn't really
   make any sense when you're just going to scale it down to the size of the planet.
   That said, scale the image to the size of your planet (default is 80 pixels).

   0.5) Select everything in the texture image and copy it over. Place that layer
    between the 'planet atmosphere' and 'planet base' layers. Then, change the layer
   mode to whichever looks best. (Grain merge is a good choice.)

   Yay! Hopefully you just made a purdy planet. Now get it into cvs so we can do
   something with it.

3.) THE END

   More thanks to Rore for his script and his tutorials. You can find his website at:

   http://home.tele2.fr/auroreblender/index_en.html

   aurore.d@gmail.com


   Whew this is quite the README. Wolorf is quitting for now.
